# CWA-2025-003: Smart contract can cause consensus failures for some nodes

**Severity**

Low (Marginal + Likely)[^1]

**Affected versions:**

- wasmvm 2.2.2
- wasmvm 2.1.5
- wasmvm 2.0.6 (unsupported)
- wasmvm 1.5.8

**Patched versions:**

- wasmvm 1.5.9, 2.1.6, 2.2.3

## Description of the bug

When running into it, the vulnerability will cause nodes running with the `--trace` flag to run into consensus failure.
Running into this issue does _not_ require a malicious contract and can happen by accident with non-malicious contracts.
It can happen on both permissioned and permissionless chains.

## Mitigations

Do not run nodes (especially validator nodes) with the `--trace` flag (or run all of them with the flag enabled).
Alternatively, upgrade to a patched version once it is released.

## Applying the patch

The patch will be shipped in releases of wasmvm. You can update more or less as follows:

1. Check the current wasmvm version: `go list -m github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm`
2. Bump the `github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm` dependency in your go.mod to one of the patched version
   depending on which minor version you are on; `go mod tidy`; commit.
3. If you use the static libraries `libwasmvm_muslc.aarch64.a`/`libwasmvm_muslc.x86_64.a`, update them accordingly.
4. Check the updated wasmvm version: `go list -m github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm` and ensure you see 1.5.9, 2.1.6 or 2.2.3.
5. Follow your regular practices to deploy chain upgrades.

The patch is consensus breaking and requires a coordinated upgrade.

## Acknowledgement

[pinosu] from Confio first found this on Neutron and reported it to the Neutron team.
After some investigation, Sergey Golyshkin from the Neutron team figured out that this is
caused by CosmWasm and reported this back to Confio.
The same issue was later reported by a member of the Injective community. Thank you!

If you believe you have found a bug in the Interchain Stack or would like to contribute to the
program by reporting a bug, please see <https://hackerone.com/cosmos>.

## Timeline

- 2025-02-17: Confio finds the issue and reports it to the Neutron team.
- 2025-02-19: Neutron does some testing and points out the problematic part of the CosmWasm code.
- 2025-03-03: Confio developed the patch internally.
- 2025-03-05: Patch gets released.

[pinosu]: https://github.com/pinosu

[^1]: following Amulet's Severity Classification Framework ACMv1.2: <https://github.com/interchainio/security/blob/0295254e8645301ccb606d46108a45cede0a73e0/resources/CLASSIFICATION_MATRIX.md>
