CWAs/CWA-2023-002.md, before:

# CWA-2023-002: Codename Cherry

**Affected versions:**

- cosmwasm-vm < 1.0.1, < 1.1.10, < 1.2.4
- wasmvm < 1.0.1, < 1.1.2, < 1.2.3

**Patched versions:**

- wasmvm 1.0.1 (cosmwasm-vm 1.0.1)
- wasmvm 1.1.2 (cosmwasm-vm 1.1.10)
- wasmvm 1.2.3 (cosmwasm-vm 1.2.4)

## Patch

The patch is shipped to chain developers in the form of a wasmvm release.
Your chain might depend on wasmvm directly or have it as a transitive dependency through wasmd.

The upgrade paths are the following:

| Current wasmvm version | Upgrade path                                  | Note |
| ---------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ---- |
| < 1.0.0                | Unsupported                                   | [^1] |
| 1.0.0                  | Upgrade wasmvm to 1.0.1                       |      |
| 1.1.1                  | Upgrade wasmvm to 1.1.2                       |      |
| 1.2.0                  | Upgrade to 1.2.2 first, then upgrade to 1.2.3 | [^2] |
| 1.2.1                  | Upgrade wasmvm to 1.2.3                       | [^3] |
| 1.2.2                  | Upgrade wasmvm to 1.2.3                       |      |

[^1]: Upgrade to any of the supported versions first.
[^2]: See https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm/issues/419 for required wasmd changes
[^3]: No typo. You can skip 1.2.2 and upgrade from 1.2.1 -> 1.2.3 directly.

### Applying the patch

1. Go tho the Go project containing the `go.mod`.
2. One of those:
   - If there is a direct `github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm` dependency listed already, update that to 1.0.1, 1.1.2 or 1.2.3 as listed above. Run .
   - Otherwise you have `wasmvm` as an indirect dependency of wasmd. Use `go list -m github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm` to get the current version and then use `go mod edit -replace github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm=github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm@v<NEW WASMVM VERSIO>` where `<NEW WASMVM VERSION>` is one of 1.0.1, 1.1.2 or 1.2.3 as listed above.
3. Run `go mod tidy` to download the dependency and update `go.sum`
4. Check the resulting version after the replace `go list -m github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm`.
5. Build, test, deploy according to your project's established flow.

After building your chain, you can check the libwasmvm version loaded at runtime with

```sh
# Replace <node> with you node name
<node> query wasm libwasmvm-version
```

## Timeline

- Research
- 2023-04-12: Patch created
- 2023-04-12: Patch release announced through [the CosmWasm security notification list](https://github.com/CosmWasm/advisories/blob/main/NOTIFICATION_LIST.md)
- 2023-04-12 to 2023-04-17: Deployment coordination
- 2023-04-17: Patch announcement is [published in the Cosmos forum](https://forum.cosmos.network/t/upcoming-cosmwasm-security-patch-codename-cherry/10474)
- 2023-04-18 14:30 UTC: Advisory is released
- 2023-04-18 15:00 UTC: Patch is released
- 2023-04-18 16:15 UTC: All planned wasmvm versions are build and tagged

Commit message:

Add section "Wasm module cache issue"

CWAs/CWA-2023-002.md, after:

# CWA-2023-002: Codename Cherry

**Affected versions:**

- cosmwasm-vm < 1.0.1, < 1.1.10, < 1.2.4
- wasmvm < 1.0.1, < 1.1.2, < 1.2.3

**Patched versions:**

- wasmvm 1.0.1 (cosmwasm-vm 1.0.1)
- wasmvm 1.1.2 (cosmwasm-vm 1.1.10)
- wasmvm 1.2.3 (cosmwasm-vm 1.2.4)

## Patch

The patch is shipped to chain developers in the form of a wasmvm release.
Your chain might depend on wasmvm directly or have it as a transitive dependency through wasmd.

The upgrade paths are the following:

| Current wasmvm version | Upgrade path                                  | Note |
| ---------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ---- |
| < 1.0.0                | Unsupported                                   | [^1] |
| 1.0.0                  | Upgrade wasmvm to 1.0.1                       |      |
| 1.1.1                  | Upgrade wasmvm to 1.1.2                       |      |
| 1.2.0                  | Upgrade to 1.2.2 first, then upgrade to 1.2.3 | [^2] |
| 1.2.1                  | Upgrade wasmvm to 1.2.3                       | [^3] |
| 1.2.2                  | Upgrade wasmvm to 1.2.3                       |      |

[^1]: Upgrade to any of the supported versions first.
[^2]: See https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm/issues/419 for required wasmd changes
[^3]: No typo. You can skip 1.2.2 and upgrade from 1.2.1 -> 1.2.3 directly.

### Applying the patch

1. Go tho the Go project containing the `go.mod`.
2. One of those:
   - If there is a direct `github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm` dependency listed already, update that to 1.0.1, 1.1.2 or 1.2.3 as listed above. Run .
   - Otherwise you have `wasmvm` as an indirect dependency of wasmd. Use `go list -m github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm` to get the current version and then use `go mod edit -replace github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm=github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm@v<NEW WASMVM VERSIO>` where `<NEW WASMVM VERSION>` is one of 1.0.1, 1.1.2 or 1.2.3 as listed above.
3. Run `go mod tidy` to download the dependency and update `go.sum`
4. Check the resulting version after the replace `go list -m github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm`.
5. Build, test, deploy according to your project's established flow.

After building your chain, you can check the libwasmvm version loaded at runtime with

```sh
# Replace <node> with you node name
<node> query wasm libwasmvm-version
```

### Wasm module cache issue

If you upgrade from wasmvm 1.2.{0,1} to wasmvm 1.2.{2,3} please note that
most likely the machine format of the compiled Wasm modules has changed,
potentially leading to segmentation faults when running the new binary.

To avoid this problem, instruct your validators to delete the cache folder
`<node home>/wasm/wasm/cache/` (replace with the location your project uses)
after they stopped the node.

See https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm/issues/426

## Timeline

- Research
- 2023-04-12: Patch created
- 2023-04-12: Patch release announced through [the CosmWasm security notification list](https://github.com/CosmWasm/advisories/blob/main/NOTIFICATION_LIST.md)
- 2023-04-12 to 2023-04-17: Deployment coordination
- 2023-04-17: Patch announcement is [published in the Cosmos forum](https://forum.cosmos.network/t/upcoming-cosmwasm-security-patch-codename-cherry/10474)
- 2023-04-18 14:30 UTC: Advisory is released
- 2023-04-18 15:00 UTC: Patch is released
- 2023-04-18 16:15 UTC: All planned wasmvm versions are build and tagged
