# CWA-2024-008: Panic in wasmvm can slow down block production

**Severity**

Medium (Moderate + Likely)[^1]

**Affected versions:**

- wasmvm >= 2.1.0, < 2.1.3
- wasmvm >= 2.0.0, < 2.0.4
- wasmvm < 1.5.5
- cosmwasm-vm >= 2.1.0, < 2.1.4
- cosmwasm-vm >= 2.0.0, < 2.0.7
- cosmwasm-vm < 1.5.8

**Patched versions:**

- wasmvm 1.5.5, 2.0.4, 2.1.3
- cosmwasm-vm 1.5.8, 2.0.7, 2.1.4

## Description of the bug

(Blank for now. We'll add more detail once chains had a chance to upgrade.)

## Patch

- 1.5: https://github.com/CosmWasm/cosmwasm/commit/edcdbc520d4f5521eed42de6e2869658278e91fd
- 2.0: https://github.com/CosmWasm/cosmwasm/commit/f63429ca59eb44dd5d780c1572016581337091e4
- 2.1: https://github.com/CosmWasm/cosmwasm/commit/108e7dcbf9c21df0fa83f355ad3a7355d7f220cb

## Applying the patch

The patch will be shipped in releases of wasmvm. You can update more or less as follows:

1. Check the current wasmvm version: `go list -m github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm`
2. Bump the `github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm` dependency in your go.mod to 1.5.5, 2.0.4, 2.1.3 depending on which minor version you are; `go mod tidy`; commit.
3. If you use the static libraries `libwasmvm_muslc.aarch64.a`/`libwasmvm_muslc.x86_64.a`, update them accordingly.
4. Check the updated wasmvm version: `go list -m github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm` and ensure you see 1.5.5, 2.0.4, 2.1.3.
5. Follow your regular practices to deploy chain upgrades.

To double check if the correct library version is loaded at runtime, use this query:
`<appd> query wasm libwasmvm-version`. It must show 1.5.5, 2.0.4 or 2.1.3.

The patch is consensus breaking and requires a coordinated upgrade.

## Acknowledgement

This issue was found by meadow101 who reported it to the Cosmos Bug Bounty Program on HackerOne.

If you believe you have found a bug in the Interchain Stack or would like to contribute to the
program by reporting a bug, please see <https://hackerone.com/cosmos>.

## Timeline

- 2024-08-22: Confio receives a report through the Cosmos bug bounty program maintained by Amulet.
- 2024-08-23: Confio security contributors confirm the report.
- 2024-09-09: Confio developed the patch internally.
- 2024-09-23: Patch is released.

[^1]: following Amulet's Severity Classification Framework ACMv1: https://github.com/interchainio/security/blob/e0227a1fb4059144aab4f6003eeee7f09912db3a/resources/CLASSIFICATION_MATRIX.md
