# CWA-2023-003: Inefficient ListChannels query implementation

**Severity**

Medium

**Affected versions:**

- wasmd < 0.42.0

**Patched versions:**

- wasmd 0.42.0 (released 2023-09-20; upgrade to 0.43.0 or higher because 0.42.0 was retracted for a different reason)

## Description of the bug

The original implementation of [IbcQuery::ListChannels](https://github.com/CosmWasm/cosmwasm/blob/v1.4.1/packages/std/src/query/ibc.rs#L16-L20)
in wasmd looped over all channels of the chain and filtered out the relevant ones.
This can be an expensive operation if there are a lot of channels on a chain.
Since store access is gas metered, this eventually leads to an out of gas which causes
the transaction to fail.

## Patch (partially fixed)

By using an implementation that filters channels by port on the storage level, we
mitigate the problem to a large degree.
It makes the operation much more gas efficient, reducing
the risk of a DoS attack because the chain as a whole may contain a lot of channels
whereas the number of channels per port is typically smaller.

In https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmd/pull/1620 you find two changes:

- The implementation efficiency discussed here (`channelKeeper.IterateChannels` -> `channelKeeper.GetAllChannelsWithPortPrefix`)
- The fix of the wrong default value for an unset port (unrelated to this document)

However, it might still be possible to have a large number of channels that belong to
a given port. In that case the query is still problematic since it does not support pagination.

## Conclusion & call to action for contract developers

As iterating over all channels for a given port is a potentially unbound operation,
contract developers should avoid using the query altogether and look for alternatives.
Those are a few scenarios we see, but there might be more:

1. In some cases [IbcQuery::Channel](https://github.com/CosmWasm/cosmwasm/blob/v1.4.1/packages/std/src/query/ibc.rs#L21-L29) is sufficient.
2. In other cases the contract might need to store channels manually as part of the IBC handshake
   in a way that allows it to access use them later on, even if the number of channels is very big.
3. Some contracts might limit connectivity to one channel only and error in the IBC handshake when more channels are created.

## Timeline

- The issue was reported by researchers of Oak Security as part of their work wrapping up the wasmd audit.
- 2023-09-14: The (partial) patch is merged (https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmd/pull/1620)
- 2023-09-20: wasmd 0.42.0 is released, containing the patch
- 2023-10-20: Advisory is written & notification list is informed
- 2023-10-23: Advisory is published without details of the bug
- 2023-10-30: Full advisory published
