# CWA-2025-002

**Severity**

Medium (Moderate + Likely)[^1]

**Affected versions:**

- wasmvm >= 2.2.0, < 2.2.2
- wasmvm >= 2.1.0, < 2.1.5
- wasmvm >= 2.0.0, < 2.0.6
- wasmvm < 1.5.8

**Patched versions:**

- wasmvm 1.5.8, 2.0.6, 2.1.5, 2.2.2

## Description of the bug

The vulnerability can be used to slow down block production. The attack requires a malicious contract,
so permissioned chains are unlikely to be affected.

(We'll add more detail once chains had a chance to upgrade.)

## Applying the patch

The patch will be shipped in releases of wasmvm. You can update more or less as follows:

1. Check the current wasmvm version: `go list -m github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm`
2. Bump the `github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm` dependency in your go.mod to one of the patched version
   depending on which minor version you are on; `go mod tidy`; commit.
3. If you use the static libraries `libwasmvm_muslc.aarch64.a`/`libwasmvm_muslc.x86_64.a`, update them accordingly.
4. Check the updated wasmvm version: `go list -m github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm` and ensure you see 1.5.8, 2.0.6, 2.1.5 or 2.2.2.
5. Follow your regular practices to deploy chain upgrades.

The patch is consensus breaking and requires a coordinated upgrade.

## Acknowledgement

This issue was found by meadow101 who reported it to the Cosmos Bug Bounty Program on HackerOne.

If you believe you have found a bug in the Interchain Stack or would like to contribute to the
program by reporting a bug, please see <https://hackerone.com/cosmos>.

## Timeline

- 2024-11-24: Confio receives a report through the Cosmos bug bounty program maintained by Amulet.
- 2024-12-20: Confio security contributors confirm the report.
- 2024-01-27: Confio developed the patch internally.
- 2025-02-04: Patch gets released.

[^1]: following Amulet's Severity Classification Framework ACMv1.2: https://github.com/interchainio/security/blob/0295254e8645301ccb606d46108a45cede0a73e0/resources/CLASSIFICATION_MATRIX.md
