# CWA-2024-006: Non-deterministic module_query_safe query

**Severity**

Medium (Moderate + Likely)[^1]

**Affected versions:**

- wasmd 0.52.0

**Patched versions:** wasmd 0.53.0

## Description of the bug

Wasmd's `SmartContractState` query was marked as `module_query_safe` in wasmd 0.52.0,
but in some cases, this query can be non-deterministic. This can lead to a chain halt.

## Patch

The patch is part of <https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmd/commit/db8981db8419fc4daa042ce04e279efb53c4ff29>
and added in here for the sake of better visibility:

1. Remove this annotation
   ```diff
   diff --git a/proto/cosmwasm/wasm/v1/query.proto b/proto/cosmwasm/wasm/v1/query.proto
   index 14b0c427d..72523c134 100644
   --- a/proto/cosmwasm/wasm/v1/query.proto
   +++ b/proto/cosmwasm/wasm/v1/query.proto
   @@ -50,7 +50,6 @@ service Query {
      // SmartContractState get smart query result from the contract
      rpc SmartContractState(QuerySmartContractStateRequest)
          returns (QuerySmartContractStateResponse) {
   -    option (cosmos.query.v1.module_query_safe) = true;
        option (google.api.http).get =
            "/cosmwasm/wasm/v1/contract/{address}/smart/{query_data}";
      }
   ```
2. Regenerate the protobuf files (`.pb.go`)

## Applying the patch

The patch will be shipped in a wasmd release. You can update more or less as follows:

1. Check the current wasmd version: `go list -m github.com/CosmWasm/wasmd`
2. Bump the `github.com/CosmWasm/wasmd` dependency in your go.mod to 0.53.0; `go mod tidy`; commit.
3. If you use the static libraries `libwasmvm_muslc.aarch64.a`/`libwasmvm_muslc.x86_64.a`, make sure that you use the same version as your wasmvm version.
4. Check the updated wasmd version: `go list -m github.com/CosmWasm/wasmd` and ensure you see 0.53.0.
5. Follow your regular practices to deploy chain upgrades.

## Acknowledgement

This issue was found by [amimart](https://github.com/amimart) who reported it to the
Cosmos Bug Bounty Program on HackerOne.

If you believe you have found a bug in the Interchain Stack or would like to contribute to the
program by reporting a bug, please see <https://hackerone.com/cosmos>.

## Timeline

- 2024-07-25: Confio receives a report through the Cosmos bug bounty program maintained by Amulet.
- 2024-08-13: Confio developed the patch internally.
- 2024-08-19: Patch release announced though notifications list.
- 2024-08-20: Patch release announced on X: <https://x.com/CosmWasm/status/1825814580217381334>.
- 2024-08-21: Patch released.

[^1]: following Amulet's Severity Classification Framework ACMv1: https://github.com/interchainio/security/blob/e0227a1fb4059144aab4f6003eeee7f09912db3a/resources/CLASSIFICATION_MATRIX.md
