# CWA-2021-001: Logic error in none handling in copyAndDestroyUnmanagedVector

## Versions and patch

**Affected versions:** wasmvm 0.14.x, 0.15.x, 0.16.x and 1.x<br>
**Patch release expected:** 2021-11-10 10:00 Berlin time<br>
**Patched versions:** wasmvm 0.16.2 and 1.0.0-beta2<br>

## Description of the bug

The C FFI type `UnmanagedVector` contains the fields `is_none`, `ptr` (pointer) `len` (length) and `cap` (capacity). The type is intended to send binary data between Rust and Go. On the Go side, binary data is a byte slice `[]byte` which is always nullable. I.e. the type can differentiate `nil` from an empty list of bytes. In order to preserve this nullability, the corresponding Rust type is `Option<Vec<u8>>`. Now the `UnmanagedVector` type was created to translate between the two. Since we were not aware that a Rust vector's `ptr` is guaranteed to be non-null or this guarantee did not exists at the time, a boolean `is_none` was created to store if the data is set or unset (`None`/`nil`).

The type's `is_none` API requires _If this is true, the other fields must be ignored_, i.e. they can contain any garbage such as uninitialized data. The Go implementation of `copyAndDestroyUnmanagedVector` did not comply with this requirement and used `v.ptr == cu8_ptr(nil)` to decide if the value was `nil`. Now if `is_none` was true and `len > 0`, the implementation would unsafely read `len` bytes from `ptr`. Since both values could have arbitrary values, this would lead to crashes.

Now the question for the crash case is: could this be triggered in real life? I.e. is there a code path where `is_none` is true but `ptr != 0`? All code paths we found set `is_none: true` and `ptr: 0` together.

The other interesting question is: did the Go implementation convert valid data to `nil` in the `v.ptr == cu8_ptr(nil)` case? The answer is no because Rust guarantees vector `ptr`s to be non-null. So only corrupted data or `is_none: true` could have been converted to `nil`.

At the end no code path was found to trigger the bug. However, given the type definition it is still a bug and even after careful inspection it is possible we missed something.

The bug was found through a crash report that mentioned bad pointers at address 0x01. This dummy address is used by Rust as `ptr` value in `Vec::<u8>::with_capacity(0)`. Since we did not find a code path to trigger the bug described above, it is likely the crash report is unrelated or the symptom of a different data corruption.

## Patch

0.16: https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm/commit/790cafa0e1625d0d232472de41c1341967e3ba2a

1.0: https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm/commit/ceaebca68ca2ddbda8cff6bcf2b89316e90121b1

## History

- 2021-10-27: Crash stacktrace reported by YunSuk-Yeo from Terra (https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm/issues/265)
- 2021-11-08: Patch release announced (https://twitter.com/simon_warta/status/1457841534112518146, https://gist.github.com/webmaster128/99f48b6e1de51453935a6f32da4ad3ee)
- 2021-11-10: Patch released (https://twitter.com/CosmWasm/status/1458371847758749697)
